Getting started with BlockSpectralTrainFig - No source code
===========================================================

The following tutorial is for the MATLAB APP version  SpectralTrainFig. MATLAB APPs were introduced in MATLAB version 2013b and provide a quick way to share programs. A set of steps are described below.

#### Steps
1. Download the BlockSpectralTrainFig.  Navigate to the SpectralTrainFig [release section](https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/releases). Download the latest release of [BlockSpectralTrainFig.mlappinstall](https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/releases/download/0.1.00/BlockSpectralTrainFig.mlappinstall).
2. Install Spectral Train Fig. Open MATLAB version 2013b or later (assuming APPS compatible with newer versions). Double click on BlockSpectralTrainFig.mlappinstall. The APP should apear in the APPS Toolbar located near the top of the MATLAB interface.
3. Download the sample dataset.  Download both the sleep study EDF file ([450002.EDF](https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/releases/download/0.1.00/450002.EDF)) and the annotation file ([450002.EDF.XML](https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/releases/download/0.1.00/450002.EDF.XML)).
4. Create a data source and analysis result folder. Place the both the EDF file and the annotation file in the data source folder.
5. Start and Execute SpectralTrainFig. Click on BlockSpectralTrainFig, which should be located in the MATLAB APP toolbar.
6. Select data folder. Locate the 'Data Folder' text edit field and select the data folder created in step 4.
7. Select the result folder. Locate the 'Results Folder' text edit field and select the data folder created in step 4.
8. Start the analysis.  Click on teh button labeled 'Go(all)' which is located at the bottom of the graphical user interface.

The following text should scrool down your MATLAB console.



Look in the result folder to inspect the EXCEL and PPTs created. Don't have MATLAB? Download the files generated by this example.


