Getting Started
==================

#### BlockEdfSpectralTrainFig - Sourecode
The steps involved in setting up spectral analysis from the source code is described below.

##### Steps:
1. *Download the sourcecode*.  Download the latest releast of the BlockEdfSpectralTrain [source code] (https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/archive/master.zip). Unzip the download and move the files to the folder you would like to run  BlockEdfSpectralTrainFig from.
2. *Download the sample dataset*.  Download both the sleep study EDF file ([450002.EDF](https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/releases/download/0.1.00/450002.EDF)) and the annotation file ([450002.EDF.XML](https://github.com/DennisDean/SpectralTrainFig/releases/download/0.1.00/450002.EDF.XML)).
4. *Create a data source and analysis result folder*. Place both the EDF file and the annotation file in the data source folder.
5. *Start Matlab*. Start matlab and navigate the current path to the source code folder.
6. *Start the Interface*. Type 'SpectralTrainFig' at the command line.
6. *Select data folder*. Locate the 'Data Folder' text edit field and select the data folder created in step 4.
7. *Select the result folder*. Locate the 'Results Folder' text edit field and select the data folder created in step 4.
8. *Start the analysis*.  Click on the button labeled 'Go(all)' which is located at the bottom of the graphical user interface


The following text should scrool down your MATLAB console.



Look in the result folder to inspect the EXCEL and PPTs created. Don't have MATLAB? Download the files generated by this example.

